(whistling upbeat music)
In this video, we're going to be talking
about flex-direction.
Now while this video is going to be very short and simple,
it's actually really important
that we understand flex-direction,
because it sets with something called the axis,
when we're doing Flexbox.
So in Flexbox, we can have both the main and the cross axis.
We'll learn about that in just a second.
However, when we go into the rest of the features
for Flexbox, if we just take a quick look at the CSS tricks
for the Complete Guide to Flexbox,
we're gonna run into these things like justify-content,
where you can horizontally or vertically
center your content and things like align-items,
and these don't necessarily mean that they are left to right
or top to bottom, they entirely depend on something
called the flex-direction.
With that in mind, let's jump into this one.
I've just got my flex-direction style, that's CSS, on open.
And if I say flex-direction, row,
give it a save and refresh, nothing happens,
because that is the default of any flex container.
Remember that this one, we did display:flex on it.
So what that means is that it'll just go from,
it'll kind of stack right beside each other,
and then they will span vertically to hit the height
of whatever the container is.
Remember that we just did a quick height:100vh on there
so we could see that it's actually spanning across,
even if we didn't, if we didn't have that,
let me take that off real quickly,
it would just take up the amount of content that it needs.
I'm actually going to change that to min-height,
just 'cause if that was ever higher than
the height of our screen, then we would actually need that.
There we go, then the other one is flex-direction column.
Give that a save and refresh, and you'll see
what that does is instead of putting them
side by side, it will stack them vertically,
on top of each other.
Now, that may not seem very fundamental to you.
That may seem pretty simple, however the main thing
that we want to take away from this is that
when we are defining things as flex-direction row,
or flex-direction column, we have two axises.
We have the main axis, which we are going
to be using things in the future
like the justify-content and the align-items.
So the main axis, when it is row, is from left to right.
You can imagine a big arrow going across the screen
from left to right here, and then what we call
the cross axis, which is the other one,
goes from top to bottom.
So you can imagine a big arrow
going from top to bottom here.
Now that's the default, and that's
generally what you'll be using,
however, if you change this from row to column,
what happens is that the main axis
is no longer going to be from left to right,
it's going to be from top to bottom,
which is exactly why the content
is going from top to bottom.
Right, again, if we change it back to row
and give it a save, content starts here and goes
to the right, 'cause that's the way the axis runs.
If we change it to column and give it a save,
the axis changes from left to right
and goes top to bottom,
and you can see the content sort of follow along with that.
Similarly, we also have row-reverse.
You can imagine what that does.
Instead of the main axis running from left to right,
it runs from right to left.
Content starts at 1, and goes on out from there.
And that's gonna be really important
when we start to work with all these
alignment ones in a future video.
You probably can guess that we also have column-reverse,
in which the content will start at 10,
and go all the way down to 1, because,
where does the axis start at the top?
No, it doesn't, the axis actually starts at the bottom
and goes on up, so every time that you're working
with Flexbox, if you ask yourself where are the main axis,
and then cross axis is always just the opposite
that you have there.
So any time you're stuck on Flexbox, if you can't
answer the question, where is my axises,
maybe step back, take a look at
what you set your flex-direction to be.
If it's not set to anything, what is it?
It's flex-direction row, 'cause that is the default.
You'd probably never have to set it to row,
unless you are specifically unapplying it
for whatever reason that you have.
So, that's flex-direction, pretty simple.
In the next video, we are going to be gearing up
and talking about flex-wrap,
so when you actually give some sort of width
to these things, what happens when you run out of space?
Does it spill off the page, do they wrap around,
et cetera, et cetera.
Some of these things that you may be used to
when working with floats.
See you in the next video.
(cheerful music)